README.md, before:

# server

Configuration for VPS1 (Ampere Altra ARM64)

## Functions

* Gen the default enviroment file -> `source server.sh && gen_server_default_env`
* Gen the enviroment file -> `source server.sh && gen_server_env`
* Gen the homepage configuration -> `source server.sh && gen_homepage_config`
* Gen the server SystemD service, timers and mounts -> `source server.sh && gen_server_services`
* Install all the SystemD files -> `source server.sh && server_install_services`
* Create the initial config files -> `source server.sh && server_init_config`
* Init the server -> `source server.sh && server_init`
* Start server -> `source server.sh && server_up`
* Stop server -> `source server.sh && server_down`

## Configuration

List of files or folders to configure the system

* __**.env**__. Environment file.
  * [.env](). Environment used by the server.
  * [.env.default](.env.default). Default environment.
  * [env.json](env.json). JSON with the default variables, used to generate the `.env` file(s) with `gen_server_env` or `gen_server_default_env`
  * [env.extra.json](). Untracked JSON with extra variables. Useful for a custom configuration on the server.
* __**homepage/config**__. Homepage dashboard configuration files [(./homepage/config)](homepage/config).
* __**.shadow**__. File where the hashed passwords are stored.
* __**traefik/dynamic**__. Traefik dynamic configuration files [(./traefik/dynamic)](traefik/dynamic).
* __**nginx/conf**__. Nginx config files [(./nginx/conf)](nginx/conf).

## Services hosted on VPS1

Check [services/README.md](services/README.md) for the complete list.

## First start steps

If using Hetzner storage, the required box structure must be already created. Check [storage/README.md](storage/README.md) for more info.

1. Prerequisites
    * Docker (with docker compose) should be installed and running on the host machine.
    * `git`, `git-lfs` and `sudo` should be installed on the machine.
    * `sshfs`, `gocryptfs` and `syncthing` should be installed on the machine.
    * Root permissions required.
    * Ports 80 and 443 accessible. UFW example, `sudo ufw allow "WWW full" && sudo ufw enable && sudo ufw status`.
2. Go to `/srv/` directory.
3. Download repo (`sudo git clone git@github.com:mrrb/server.git --recursive`). CD into it `cd /srv/server/`.
4. Checkout to VPS1 branch `sudo git checkout vps1`.
5. JIC `sudo git submodule update --init --recursive` and `cd refs/server-private && sudo git lfs install && sudo git lfs fetch && sudo git lfs checkout && cd ../..`.
6. Create the `.shadow` file `sudo touch .shadow` (or `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && server_init_config'`) and add into it all the required users.
    * Gen hased user:password strings with `htpasswd -nb USER PASSWORD`.
    * It should include the user `homepage` to integrate traefik into homepage.
7. Create the custom environment JSON file `sudo touch env.extra.json` (or `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && server_init_config'`) and add the following fields.
    * `HOMEPAGE_TRAEFIK_PASSWORD` and `HOMEPAGE_TRAEFIK_USERNAME` should match the password and user generated previously.
    * `HOMEPAGE_PORTAINER_KEY` can be defined but ignored for the moment.
    * Set `SIMPLYSHORTEN_USER` and `SIMPLYSHORTEN_PASS`.
    <!-- * Set `AUTHENTIK_POSTGRES_PASSWORD`. -->
    * Set API keys `FIREFLYIII_APP_KEY` and `FIREFLYIII_STATIC_CRON_TOKEN` (32 long strings).
    * Set mail vars `MAIL_ENCRYPTION`, `MAIL_FROM`, `MAIL_HOST`, `MAIL_PASSWORD`, `MAIL_PORT` and `MAIL_USERNAME`.
    * Set `STORAGE_SSH_HOST`, `STORAGE_SSH_USER_OTHER` and `STORAGE_SSH_USER_VAULT`.
    * Set `MARIADB_ROOT_PASSWORD` and `PYDIO_DB_PASSWORD`.
    * Set, if needed, `STORAGE_UID` and `STORAGE_GID`.
    * Set, if needed, `PLATFORM_ARCH` (Ex. 'linux/amd64' or 'linux/arm64')
8. Create a new SSH key pair for the storage box.
    * `sudo ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "VPS1-HetznerStorageBox" -f /srv/server/storage/.ssh/id_ed25519 -q -N ""`.
    * Convert public key to RFC4716 format: `sudo bash -c 'ssh-keygen -e -f /srv/server/storage/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub > /srv/server/storage/.ssh/id_ed25519_rfc.pub'`
9. Add generated public key (`/srv/server/storage/.ssh/id_ed25519_rfc.pub`) to the Hetzner storage box `.ssh/authorized_keys` for the *vault* and *other* subaccounts, optionally, disable the *External reachability* function for the primary account. Check [storage/README.md](storage/README.md) for more info.
10. Init gocryptfs directories. Check [storage/README.md](storage/README.md) for more info.
11. Store gocryptfs keys.
    * `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && store_gocrypt_password private'` and insert `private` key.
    * `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && store_gocrypt_password generic'` and insert `generic` key.
12. Init server files `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && server_init'`. This will generate the environment file, fill some config files and generate and install all the services, timers and mounts.
13. Allow grpc port in firewall. UFW example, `sudo ufw allow 33060/tcp && sudo ufw enable && sudo ufw status`
14. Allow syncthing port in firewall. UFW example, `sudo ufw allow 22000,21027/udp && sudo ufw allow 22000/tcp && sudo ufw enable && sudo ufw status`
15. Enable the required server service(s), timer(s) and mount(s).
    * `sudo systemctl enable server.service`.
    * `sudo systemctl enable server_sshfs_mount_other.service`.
    * `sudo systemctl enable server_sshfs_mount_vault.service`.
    * `sudo systemctl enable server_gocryptfs_mount_vault_generic.service`.
    * `sudo systemctl enable server_gocryptfs_mount_vault_private.service`.
16. Reboot system and check that everything works.
17. Go to the portainer page and set it up.
    * Gen a KEY and save it into the `env.extra.json` file (`HOMEPAGE_PORTAINER_KEY`).
18. Regenerate the environment file `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && gen_server_env'`.
19. Restart service `sudo systemctl restart server.service`.
20. Enjoy 😉.

Commit message:

Use syncthing GUI built-in user and pass

README.md, after:

# server

Configuration for VPS1 (Ampere Altra ARM64)

## Functions

* Gen the default enviroment file -> `source server.sh && gen_server_default_env`
* Gen the enviroment file -> `source server.sh && gen_server_env`
* Gen the homepage configuration -> `source server.sh && gen_homepage_config`
* Gen the server SystemD service, timers and mounts -> `source server.sh && gen_server_services`
* Install all the SystemD files -> `source server.sh && server_install_services`
* Create the initial config files -> `source server.sh && server_init_config`
* Init the server -> `source server.sh && server_init`
* Start server -> `source server.sh && server_up`
* Stop server -> `source server.sh && server_down`

## Configuration

List of files or folders to configure the system

* __**.env**__. Environment file.
  * [.env](). Environment used by the server.
  * [.env.default](.env.default). Default environment.
  * [env.json](env.json). JSON with the default variables, used to generate the `.env` file(s) with `gen_server_env` or `gen_server_default_env`
  * [env.extra.json](). Untracked JSON with extra variables. Useful for a custom configuration on the server.
* __**homepage/config**__. Homepage dashboard configuration files [(./homepage/config)](homepage/config).
* __**.shadow**__. File where the hashed passwords are stored.
* __**traefik/dynamic**__. Traefik dynamic configuration files [(./traefik/dynamic)](traefik/dynamic).
* __**nginx/conf**__. Nginx config files [(./nginx/conf)](nginx/conf).

## Services hosted on VPS1

Check [services/README.md](services/README.md) for the complete list.

## First start steps

If using Hetzner storage, the required box structure must be already created. Check [storage/README.md](storage/README.md) for more info.

1. Prerequisites
    * Docker (with docker compose) should be installed and running on the host machine.
    * `git`, `git-lfs` and `sudo` should be installed on the machine.
    * `sshfs`, `gocryptfs` and `syncthing` should be installed on the machine.
    * Root permissions required.
    * Ports 80 and 443 accessible. UFW example, `sudo ufw allow "WWW full" && sudo ufw enable && sudo ufw status`.
2. Go to `/srv/` directory.
3. Download repo (`sudo git clone git@github.com:mrrb/server.git --recursive`). CD into it `cd /srv/server/`.
4. Checkout to VPS1 branch `sudo git checkout vps1`.
5. JIC `sudo git submodule update --init --recursive` and `cd refs/server-private && sudo git lfs install && sudo git lfs fetch && sudo git lfs checkout && cd ../..`.
6. Create the `.shadow` file `sudo touch .shadow` (or `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && server_init_config'`) and add into it all the required users.
    * Gen hased user:password strings with `htpasswd -nb USER PASSWORD`.
    * It should include the user `homepage` to integrate traefik into homepage.
7. Create the custom environment JSON file `sudo touch env.extra.json` (or `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && server_init_config'`) and add the following fields.
    * `HOMEPAGE_TRAEFIK_PASSWORD` and `HOMEPAGE_TRAEFIK_USERNAME` should match the password and user generated previously.
    * `HOMEPAGE_PORTAINER_KEY` can be defined but ignored for the moment.
    * Set `SIMPLYSHORTEN_USER` and `SIMPLYSHORTEN_PASS`.
    <!-- * Set `AUTHENTIK_POSTGRES_PASSWORD`. -->
    * Set API keys `FIREFLYIII_APP_KEY` and `FIREFLYIII_STATIC_CRON_TOKEN` (32 long strings).
    * Set mail vars `MAIL_ENCRYPTION`, `MAIL_FROM`, `MAIL_HOST`, `MAIL_PASSWORD`, `MAIL_PORT` and `MAIL_USERNAME`.
    * Set `STORAGE_SSH_HOST`, `STORAGE_SSH_USER_OTHER` and `STORAGE_SSH_USER_VAULT`.
    * Set `MARIADB_ROOT_PASSWORD` and `PYDIO_DB_PASSWORD`.
    * Set, if needed, `STORAGE_UID` and `STORAGE_GID`.
    * Set, if needed, `PLATFORM_ARCH` (Ex. 'linux/amd64' or 'linux/arm64')
8. Create a new SSH key pair for the storage box.
    * `sudo ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "VPS1-HetznerStorageBox" -f /srv/server/storage/.ssh/id_ed25519 -q -N ""`.
    * Convert public key to RFC4716 format: `sudo bash -c 'ssh-keygen -e -f /srv/server/storage/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub > /srv/server/storage/.ssh/id_ed25519_rfc.pub'`
9. Add generated public key (`/srv/server/storage/.ssh/id_ed25519_rfc.pub`) to the Hetzner storage box `.ssh/authorized_keys` for the *vault* and *other* subaccounts, optionally, disable the *External reachability* function for the primary account. Check [storage/README.md](storage/README.md) for more info.
10. Init gocryptfs directories. Check [storage/README.md](storage/README.md) for more info.
11. Store gocryptfs keys.
    * `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && store_gocrypt_password private'` and insert `private` key.
    * `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && store_gocrypt_password generic'` and insert `generic` key.
12. Init server files `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && server_init'`. This will generate the environment file, fill some config files and generate and install all the services, timers and mounts.
13. Allow grpc port in firewall. UFW example, `sudo ufw allow 33060/tcp && sudo ufw enable && sudo ufw status`
14. Allow syncthing port in firewall. UFW example, `sudo ufw allow 22000,21027/udp && sudo ufw allow 22000/tcp && sudo ufw enable && sudo ufw status`
15. Enable the required server service(s), timer(s) and mount(s).
    * `sudo systemctl enable server.service`.
    * `sudo systemctl enable server_sshfs_mount_other.service`.
    * `sudo systemctl enable server_sshfs_mount_vault.service`.
    * `sudo systemctl enable server_gocryptfs_mount_vault_generic.service`.
    * `sudo systemctl enable server_gocryptfs_mount_vault_private.service`.
16. Reboot system and check that everything works.
17. Go to the portainer page and set it up.
    * Gen a KEY and save it into the `env.extra.json` file (`HOMEPAGE_PORTAINER_KEY`).
18. Regenerate the environment file `sudo bash -c 'source /srv/server/server.sh && gen_server_env'`.
19. Go to syncthing and add a user and password.
20. Restart service `sudo systemctl restart server.service`.
21. Enjoy 😉.
